choice other than through the kinds of mentors that we provide.
But should primary care be kind of...
I think that primary care is a well-stated primary objective.
If we can achieve it, fine, but we cannot tell our graduates what to do.
One of the things I realize I have not asked you about, were there women in the first class?
Oh, yes.
I don't remember the number.
We could look at the photograph of the charter class to see.
So there weren't any first women?
Oh, no.
Do you remember any particular events that were centered around the fact that there were men and women in the class?
No, I don't have any.
Was there a pioneer minority student?
I don't remember that issue at all.
Minorities gradually infiltrated.
That's not a good word.
But we gradually did incorporate minority groups into the admissions.
I think the charter class and maybe the next couple of classes who were drawn exclusively from A&M were not a very diverse group.
But you're also implying there were no problems of race, gender, ethnicity?
Not that I have ever perceived.
I would have been surprised if there had been.
Okay.
I've got two more questions I can think of other than this one.
What have we not touched on that we should have?
What have we skipped over, left out?
Hmm.
I don't know.
I don't know what to say.
The other two that I can think of, let's make believe someone walks up to you and gives you a check for a million dollars with only one requirement.
You must pass it on to Texas A&M, but you can decide the use to be made.
If you were capable of making a large financial gift to A&M, what would you want done with that money?
What would be your favorite addition?
I don't think that I would do anything different from what I've already done.
And I'm not bragging here, Haskell, or I don't mean to, but I have committed personally about a half million
to this university for specific projects.
One of those is to honor the charter speaker of the university's faculty senate.
It carries the name that John J. McDermott, a speakership of the university faculty senate.
It is an endowment that upon my death will be worth several hundred thousand dollars.
I have endowed a lectureship in the history of medicine for this department in memory of my wife.
I just delivered a few days ago the inaugural lecture in another lecture series that I endowed, the George C.Y.
Cho Lectureship in Pharmacology.
And I wouldn't change those for the world.
I have recently completed an endowment for the Anthony van Leeuwenhoek Award for Excellence in Microbiology, which goes to a graduating senior who has excelled in microbiology.
And again, upon my death, there will be a very substantial pot of money to construct this courtyard just outside of my window, the Robert S. and Mary Elizabeth Stone Pavilion.
The courtyard was Bob's creation.
He saw in his original concept for the courtyard
a shelter of some kind from the texas summer sun and when the courtyard came into implementation it ran out of money before the pavilion could be constructed so i'm very happy that i can meet that
part of his dream.
I've done almost exactly 150 interviews.
I've asked that same question to everyone, and you're one of the few that has been able to answer it by saying, this is what I've done.
The last one, then, is almost superfluous.
What feelings do you hold in your heart for this institution?
Haskell, I absolutely love Texas A&M University.
And I feel, with the separation of the College of Medicine from the university, a kind of disenfranchisement.
I have just completed 25 years of service.
Last Friday, I was recognized for 25 years of service to the Health Science Center, which isn't 25 years old.
I would have much preferred to get that recognition from the university, which I truly, truly love.
Let's quit there.